samples: nrf9160: MMSS: Add LED indication (#8251)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/nrf9160/nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/README.rst

  For location readings to be visible in the nRF Cloud portal, they must be marked as enabled in the `Device Shadow <nRF Cloud Device Shadows_>`_.
  This is performed by the :file:`src/connection.c` file.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_led_status_indication:

LED status indication
=====================

> On boards that support it, this sample can indicate its current status via any on-board LEDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On boards that support LED status indication, this sample can indicate its current status with any on-board LEDs.
```

> This is performed by a simple background thread implemented in :file:`src/led_control.c` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is performed by a background thread implemented in the :file:`src/led_control.c` file.
```

> Other threads may request either a temporary or indefinite pattern be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other threads may request either a temporary or indefinite LED pattern.
```

> This will cause the ``led_thread`` to wake up and begin animating the requested pattern, sleeping for 100 milliseconds at a time between animation frames, until the requested pattern has completed, or until a new pattern is requested in its place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This wakes up the ``led_thread`` and begins animating the requested pattern, sleeping for 100 milliseconds at a time between animation frames, until the requested pattern has completed, or until a new pattern is requested in its place.
```

Patterns may also be requested indefinitely.

> This feature is enabled by default for the ``thingy91_nrf9160_ns`` (Thingy:91) and ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns`` (nRF9160 DK) board targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is enabled by default for the ``thingy91_nrf9160_ns`` (Thingy:91) and ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns`` (nRF9160 DK) targets.
```

> On these board targets, the patterns shown, what states they describe, and what options are required for them to appear are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The patterns displayed, the states they describe, and the options required for them to appear are as follows:
```

+------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Status                                               | ``thingy91_nrf9160_ns`` (Thingy:91)  | ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns`` (nRF9160 DK)              | Conditions                                                                                                |
+======================================================+======================================+====================================================+===========================================================================================================+

> | Trying to connect to nRF Cloud (for the first time)  | Pulsating orange LED                 | Single lit LED spinning around the square of LEDs  | If LED status indication is enabled                                                                       |
> | Connection to nRF Cloud lost, reconnecting           | Pulsating orange LED                 | Single lit LED spinning around the square of LEDs  | Only if the :ref:`CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION>` option is enabled        |
> | Fatal Error                                          | Blinking red LED, 75% duty cycle     | All 4 LEDs blinking, 75% duty cycle                | If LED status indication is enabled                                                                       |
> | Device message sent successfully                     | Blinking green LED, 25% duty cycle   | Alternating diagonals blinking                     | Only if the :ref:`CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION>` option is enabled        |
> | Idle                                                 | LED pulsating between blue and cyan  | Single LED bouncing between opposite corners       | Only if the :ref:`CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION>` option is enabled  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Trying to connect to nRF Cloud (for the first time)  | Pulsating orange LED                 | Single lit LED spinning around the square of LEDs  | LED status indication is enabled                                                                       |
| Connection to nRF Cloud lost, reconnecting           | Pulsating orange LED                 | Single lit LED spinning around the square of LEDs  | The :ref:`CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION>` option is enabled        |
| Fatal error                                          | Blinking red LED, 75% duty cycle     | All four LEDs blinking, 75% duty cycle                | LED status indication is enabled                                                                       |
| Device message sent successfully                     | Blinking green LED, 25% duty cycle   | Alternating diagonals blinking                     | The :ref:`CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION>` option is enabled        |
| Idle                                                 | LED pulsating between blue and cyan  | Single LED bouncing between opposite corners       | The :ref:`CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION>` option is enabled  |
```

+------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> Under all other circumstances, onboard LEDs will be turned off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under all other circumstances, onboard LEDs are turned off.
```

.. note::
  The :ref:`CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION>` options are enabled by default.

> See `nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_customizing_LED_status_indication`_ for details on customizing LED behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See `nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_customizing_LED_status_indication`_ for details on customizing the LED behavior.
```

> See `nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_led_third_party`_ for details on configuring LED status indication on third-party boards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See `nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_led_third_party`_ for details on configuring the LED status indication on third-party boards.
```

Author: "the" seems a bit unnatural in this sentence to me, "LED status indication" feels like an abstract noun

| Fatal error                                          | Blinking red LED, 75% duty cycle     | All four LEDs blinking, 75% duty cycle             | LED status indication is enabled                                                                          |
+------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Device message sent successfully                     | Blinking green LED, 25% duty cycle   | Alternating diagonals blinking                     | The :ref:`CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION>` option is enabled                |
+------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | Idle                                                 | LED pulsating between blue and cyan  | Single LED bouncing between opposite corners       | The :ref:`CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION>` option is enabled          |

Author: In the former, LED1 is lit in one frame, and then LED4 is lit in the next frame (a single LED bouncing between two opposite corners)

In the latter, LED1 and LED4 are lit in one frame, then LED3 and LED2 are lit in the second frame (either diagonal of the square is blinked, one after the other)

I will try to make the description more explicit

> | Idle                                                 | LED pulsating between blue and cyan  | Single LED bouncing between opposite corners       | The :ref:`CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION>` option is enabled          |

Author: I think I've made things a little clearer -- I accidentally introduced a period into one of the sentences. I will fix on the next force push

+------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> Under all other circumstances, onboard LEDs are turned off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under all other circumstances, on-board LEDs are turned off.
```

Enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_ANTENNA_GNSS_EXTERNAL` to use an external antenna.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_customizing_LED_status_indication:

Customizing LED status indication
=================================

To disable LED status indication after a connection to nrf Cloud has been established at least once, disable :ref:`CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION>`.

> To make the LED turn off while the sample is idle rather than show an idle pattern, disable :ref:`CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To turn the LED off while the sample is idle (rather than show an idle pattern), disable :ref:`CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION>`.
```

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_led_third_party:

Configuring LED status indication for third-party boards
========================================================

> This sample assumes that the board being targeted either has a single RGB LED with PWM support, or four discrete LEDs available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample assumes that the target board either has a single RGB LED with PWM support, or four discrete LEDs available.
```

> For third-party boards, you may select the RGB LED option by enabling both the :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM <CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB>` options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For third-party boards, you can select the RGB LED option by enabling both the :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM <CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB>` options.
```

In this case, the board must have a devicetree entry marked as compatible with the `Zephyr pwm-leds`_ driver.

> Otherwise, the four-LED option (:ref:`CONFIG_LEDINDICATION_GPIO <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_GPIO>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED`) will be enabled by default as long as there is a devicetree entry compatible with the `Zephyr gpio-leds`_ driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, the four-LED option (:ref:`CONFIG_LEDINDICATION_GPIO <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_GPIO>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED <CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED>`) is enabled by default as long as there is a devicetree entry compatible with the `Zephyr gpio-leds`_ driver.
```

> The 4-LED option should work even if there are not 4 LEDs available, so long as an appropriate devicetree entry exists.
> However, if fewer than four LEDs are available, the patterns used will be difficult to identify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The four-LED option should work even if there are not four LEDs available, as long as an appropriate devicetree entry exists.
However, if fewer than four LEDs are available, the patterns are difficult to identify.
```

Author: In retrospect, "will/are" seems too definite. I am switching it to "may be"

> You may add your own LED indication implementations by adding additional values to the ``LED_INDICATOR`` KConfig choice and modifying the :file:`src/led_control.c` file accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add your own LED indication implementations, you can add values to the ``LED_INDICATOR`` KConfig option and modify the :file:`src/led_control.c` file accordingly.
```

> LED indication may be disabled altogether by enabling :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_DISABLED <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_DISABLED>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable the LED indication, enable the :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_DISABLED <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_DISABLED>` option.
```

Author: Same abstract-noun problem with "the" in this sentence

Otherwise, I have adopted these changes

Reviewer: I have to disagree here. The definite article is there because of the word "option".

Author: Hah, I just realized there are two "the"'s in this sentence

I was referring to "the LED indication" rather than "enable the"

I'll double-check that I have the latter the

> For examples of how to set up devicetree entries compatible with gpio-leds and pwm-leds, see :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/nrf9160dk_nrf9160/nrf9160dk_nrf9160_common.dts` and :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/thingy91_nrf9160/thingy91_nrf9160_common.dts`, searching for nodes with ``compatible = "gpio-leds";`` and ``compatible = "pwm-leds";`` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For examples of how to set up devicetree entries compatible with GPIO LEDs and PWM LEDs, see the files :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/nrf9160dk_nrf9160/nrf9160dk_nrf9160_common.dts` and :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/thingy91_nrf9160/thingy91_nrf9160_common.dts`.
Search for nodes with ``compatible = "gpio-leds";`` and ``compatible = "pwm-leds";`` respectively.
```

Author: "gpio-leds" and "pwm-leds" here refer to the Zephyr driver names. I thought  about hyperlinking them using `\`pwm-leds <Zephyr pwm-leds>\`_`, but I feared that might excessive. Should I do that, or use `\`\`pwm-leds\`\`` instead?

Reviewer: I'd say they are ok without the links. Just without the backticks. Maybe like this:
... compatible with the gpio-leds and pwm-leds Zephyr drivers...

=================================

To disable LED status indication (other than the selected idle behavior) after a connection to nrf Cloud has been established at least once, disable :ref:`CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION>`.

To turn the LED turn off while the sample is idle (rather than show an idle pattern), disable :ref:`CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION <CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION>`.

If you disable both of these options together, the status indicator LED remains off after a connection to nRF Cloud has been established at least once.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service_led_third_party:

Configuring LED status indication for third-party boards
========================================================

This sample assumes that the target board either has a single RGB LED with PWM support, or four discrete LEDs available.

For third-party boards, you can select the RGB LED option by enabling both the :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM <CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB>` options.
In this case, the board must have a devicetree entry marked as compatible with the `Zephyr pwm-leds`_ driver.

> Otherwise, the four-LED option (:ref:`CONFIG_LEDINDICATION_GPIO <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_GPIO>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED <CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED>`) is by default as long as there is a devicetree entry compatible with the `Zephyr gpio-leds`_ driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, the four-LED option (:ref:`CONFIG_LEDINDICATION_GPIO <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_GPIO>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED <CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED>`) is selected by default as long as there is a devicetree entry compatible with the `Zephyr gpio-leds`_ driver.
```

Author: Good catch

   Enables tracking and reporting of temperature data to `nRF Cloud`_.
   Defaults to enabled.

.. _CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM:

CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM - PWM LED indication
   Use the `Zephyr pwm-leds`_ driver for LED indication.
   Defaults to enabled on the Thingy:91.

.. _CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_GPIO:

CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_GPIO - GPIO LED indication
   Use the `Zephyr gpio-leds`_ driver for LED indication.

>    Defaults to enabled if there is a compatible devicetree entry, and the Thingy:91 is not being targeted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Defaults to enabled if there is a compatible devicetree entry, and the Thingy:91 is not the target.
```

   Defaults to enabled on the nRF9160DK.

.. _CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_DISABLED:

CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_DISABLED - Completely disable LED indication
   Defaults to enabled if both :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_PWM>` and :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_GPIO <CONFIG_LED_INDICATION_GPIO>` are disabled.

.. _CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB:

> CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB - RGB LED Status Indication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB - RGB LED status indication
```

   Use an on-board RGB LED for status indication.
   Defaults to enabled on the Thingy:91.

.. _CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED:

> CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED - 4-LED Status Indication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_4LED - four-LED status indication
```

Author: I think "four" should be capitalized, here, since it is the start of a heading, right?

Otherwise, applied this change

Reviewer: Absolutely capitalized, my bad.

   Use four discrete LEDs for status indication.

>    Defaults to enabled if :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB <CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB>` is disabled and LED Indication is not disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Defaults to enabled if :ref:`CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB <CONFIG_LED_INDICATOR_RGB>` is disabled and LED indication is not disabled.
```

.. _CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION:

> CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION - Verbose LED Status Indication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CONFIG_LED_VERBOSE_INDICATION - Verbose LED status indication
```

   Show more detailed LED status updates.
   Show a pattern when device messages are successfully sent, and when the initial connection to nRF Cloud is lost.
   Defaults to enabled if LED indication is enabled.

.. _CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION:

> CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION - Continuous LED Satus Indication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CONFIG_LED_CONTINUOUS_INDICATION - Continuous LED status indication
```
